Company Leave Policy

Effective Date: January 1, 2025
Department: Human Resources

Annual Leave Entitlement
All full-time employees are entitled to 20 days of paid annual leave per calendar year. New employees who join mid-year will receive a prorated number of leave days based on their start date. For example, an employee who joins on July 1 will receive 10 days of annual leave for the remaining year.

Carry Forward Rules
Unused annual leave can be carried forward to the next year, up to a maximum of 5 days. Any leave beyond 5 days that is not used by December 31 will expire. Employees are encouraged to plan their leave throughout the year to avoid losing unused days.

Sick Leave
Employees are entitled to 12 days of paid sick leave per year. Sick leave of more than 3 consecutive days requires a medical certificate. Unused sick leave cannot be carried forward or converted to cash.

Maternity and Paternity Leave
Female employees are entitled to 16 weeks of paid maternity leave. Male employees are entitled to 4 weeks of paid paternity leave. Both must be taken within the first 6 months after the birth or adoption of a child. Employees must notify their manager at least 4 weeks in advance when possible.

Public Holidays
The company observes 10 public holidays per year as published by the HR department at the start of each calendar year. If a public holiday falls on a weekend, a substitute holiday will be provided on the nearest working day.

Leave Approval Process
All leave requests must be submitted through the company's leave management system at least 5 working days in advance. Emergency leave requests will be handled on a case-by-case basis. Managers are expected to respond to leave requests within 2 working days.

Unpaid Leave
Employees may request unpaid leave for personal reasons after exhausting their annual leave balance. Unpaid leave requires approval from both the direct manager and the HR department. Unpaid leave of more than 30 days in a year may affect benefits eligibility.

Disciplinary Implications
Unauthorized absence from work is considered a disciplinary matter. Repeated unauthorized absences may result in formal warnings and, in serious cases, termination of employment. Employees who are unable to attend work due to unforeseen circumstances must inform their manager as soon as possible.
